Cut your Noode.js memory usage in half
with this one simple trick. Okay, the
cut the clickbait. This is actually a
really cool topic. As I'm sure most of
you all know, JavaScript is not exactly
memory efficient. That's why we see
hilarious things like cursor using 3.38
terab of RAM. JavaScript's a great
language that does a lot of really cool
things, but sadly memory management has
never been one of the ones it is
strongest with. Which is why I was
really excited to see Matteo, who is one
of the main contributors to Node, come
out with a really cool post about how we
cut Node memory usage in half with a
oneline Docker image swap. To be clear,
it's not one line of code changing here.
A Docker image swap is a pretty big deal
depending on where you're doing it, but
the things that led to this performance
win are genuinely really fascinating.
Feel like most engineers don't
appreciate just how much hard
engineering work goes into JavaScript
because they're quick to dismiss it as
JavaScript. But V8 is one of the most
complex and impressive projects ever
built, and Node is not too far from it.
The effort that's going into the C++
that is powering all of this stuff is
hard to put into words, and some of it's
really cool. I'm constantly surprised by
how many hidden flags and features there
are inside of V8 in Node that can
fundamentally change the performance
characteristics. This is one I did not
know about that I think is really,
really cool, and I can't wait to tell
you all about it after a quick word from
today's sponsor. If you don't have any
users, you can skip this section, but
for those who do, it's important to
understand what they're actually doing
with your service. And that's why
today's sponsor is so important to me.
HostG
users are doing. I know this looks like
an operating system, but they're
actually a suite of product tools,
things that you need to build real
products. The main thing that you're
going to use them for is analytics, and
they are the best analytics provider.
Open source, too, but it doesn't really
matter cuz their hosting is absurdly
cheap. Their free tier gives you a
million events, 5,000 session
recordings, a million requests to
feature flags, 1,500 survey results,
100,000 errors and exceptions, and so
much more. The data warehouse is one of
the coolest parts, though, because you
can integrate with other services.
Integrations like Superbase and Stripe
are super useful. Believe me, I spent
way too much time in the Stripe
dashboard. Post Hogs is significantly
better, and it's like two clicks to set
up. I was signing in to show you guys
quick and I just their vibe is
hilarious. Just the fact that they have
a special Valentine's Day little thing
is just that's how they are. Are you
kidding?
[gasps] Post hog. I want to just show
off the data and your
the vibes are immaculate. If you want a
data company that doesn't take
themselves too seriously, but is a
serious contender for managing all of
your data, look no further than
soyb.link/postthog.
Now, let's dive into how Matteo was able
to cut Node's memory usage in half, as
well as any potential negative side
effects of this. V8, the C++ engine
under the proverbial hood of JavaScript,
includes a feature that many Node
developers aren't familiar with. This
feature, pointer compression, is a
method for using smaller memory
references in the JavaScript heap,
reducing each pointer from 64 bits to 32
bits. The net is that you wind up using
about 50% less memory for the same app
without having to change any code.
Pretty great, right? Well, almost.
Node.js does not enable pointer
compression by default for two
historical reasons. I find this to be
really interesting. There's been a
couple times where this happened. One of
the most famous ones was when I got in
the fight with that person who claimed I
was lying about performance differences
between Verscell and Cloudflare because
when he ran a trigonometry function in a
loop, it performed better on Cloudflare
than Verscell. The reason for that was
actually [__] hilarious. Cloudflare
doesn't run Node. Cloudflare runs their
own V8-based engine. Verscell runs Node.
It turns out there was a flag to do
faster trig math that had been enabled
by Cloudflare for their runtime of V8
that was not enabled by default in Node
runtimes. Cloudflare were the ones who
went and found this, fixed it, and got
it upstreamed into Node itself, thereby
killing the gap there. But that was just
like one trigonometry function that
didn't have the flag enabled to make it
faster. Thanks, Pron, for that. But
yeah, I still can't believe that my [__]
posting and silly benchmarks ended up
making Cloudflare 3 to 10 times faster
for various workloads. So cool. And a
lot of that just comes down to which
flags are enabled and what values are
set for them. People don't appreciate
how much config there is in Node because
none of us ever hit it. Like in
Typescript, you go edit the TS config,
but in Node, you don't really config
anything. You just tell it to run a
JavaScript file. But there are so many
flags you can enable in the building and
bundling of node that nobody ever
touches and seeing into them with stuff
like this is really fun. So let's see
the historical reasons why this
particular flag has not been enabled. So
going through these reasons, first is
the 4 gig cage limitation which means
that enabling pointer compression
required the entire node process to
share a single 4 gig memory space
between the main thread and all the
worker threads. This is a significant
issue. Cloudflare Ngalia partnered to
solve this so that the cage could be per
isolate, an individual instance of the
V8 engine. To break this down a little
bit for those who aren't as familiar
with the worker model in JavaScript and
V8, it is possible to spin up relatively
safe isolates in V8 that have their own
pool of memory. So, if I have some work
going on in the main thread, like I'm
trying to make sure when people hit
buttons on the keyboard, something
appears as quickly as possible, but I
want to do something else that is
complex computationally, like generate
some UI or run some complex math. If you
do that on the main thread, other inputs
and other things the user is doing are
going to be blocked by that background
work. Workers are a way to effectively
spin up another instance of the JS
engine. It's not really a new instance.
a sub isolate within it that has its own
memory, its own runner, and can be run
in parallel to what you're doing in the
main thread. So that things happening in
the worker don't block the main thread.
But in order for that to work, it needs
to have its own memory that it's
operating against. You cannot share
memory between a worker and the main
thread. You have to pass events between
the two. As a result of this complexity,
a lot of people have just never built
with workers. I don't really know many
JavaScript developers that have used
workers in the browser. I'm not talking
about Cloudflare workers. talking about
browser workers for other threads to
prevent blocking main thread as you're
doing things. I just don't know many who
have used it that way. Cloudflare uses
them very heavily. The reason the
platform is called Cloudflare workers is
because you don't get your own instance
of V8 when you use Cloudflare. The V8
instance has workers spun up for every
request. So the same way I could in the
browser spin up a worker to do something
else while the user is still using the
site, Cloudflare has the one main V8
instance with tons of workers that are
spun up in order to do these other
things so that they can run on the same
instance of V8 thereby massively
reducing Cloudflare's costs for hosting
and also allowing them to be as cheap as
they are relatively speaking. And yes,
Nean, web workers are the right term for
the version for the web, but what the
[__] would be called the ones in node if
that was the case? The point I'm trying
to make here is that Cloudflare has
invested a lot in doing things to
prevent weird memory characteristics in
workers because they want this to work
as well as possible for the stuff they
are hosting. And the problem here was
that the entire node process was sharing
a single 4 gig memory space and whenever
a new worker came up, it got to reserve
some portion of that because it couldn't
reuse the other things. So what's the
other problem that prevented this? Some
worried that compressing and
decompressing pointers on each heap
access would introduce performance
overhead. And I understand this concern.
I actually would have had the same
concern that if you have to do something
extra, like one more cycle, one more
step before you could even access the
values in memory. That sounds really
bad. And that's why Cloudflare, Agalia,
and the Node.js project all collaborated
to determine exactly what kind of
overhead existed and assess whether it
would impact real world apps. To test
this, they created Node Caged, a Node 25
Docker image with pointer compression
turned on. Because you can't just pass a
flag to node. You can't just be like
node- compression or something. it has
to be built with this on. So they made a
custom build of node 25, put it in
docker so you could easily swap it
without having to reinstall node on your
existing instance and then run
production level benchmarks with this on
AWS EKS. In short, we achieved 50%
memory savings with only a 2 to 4%
increase in average latency across real
world workloads and a reduced P99
latency by 7%. For most teams, this
trade-off is an easy choice.
Fascinating. I would expect this to
become the default very very soon. Let's
talk a bit more about how all of this
works. First though, uh Nean clarified
that there are a lot of different types
of workers. Cloudflare workers, web
workers, service workers, parenthesis,
node worker threads cuz these are called
worker threads, but they are the node
version. Yeah, super easy to understand.
Every JavaScript object is stored in V8.
Inside objects point to each other using
64-bit memory addresses on a 64-bit
system. For example, an object like name
Alice age 30 has several internal
pointers. One to its hidden class, the
shape, one to where its properties are
stored, and one to the string Alice,
which is on the heap. So, you might
imagine all of these pointers can add up
in a typical node app, taking up a lot
of valuable heap space. On a 64-bit
system, each pointer uses eight bytes,
even though most V8 heaps are much
smaller than the huge address space they
could use. For real, pointer compression
takes advantage of this. Instead of
saving full 64-bit memory addresses, V8
stores 32-bit offsets relative distances
from a fixed starting point called the
base address. When reading from the
heap, which is the section of memory
where objects are stored, it rebuilds
the full pointer by adding the base and
the offset. When writing, it compresses
the pointer by subtracting the base from
the full address. Interesting. So, this
is basically just Unix time, but for
memory. Seriously though, it makes a lot
of sense. You still have the 64-bit
positioning, but if you're only using 4
gigs of memory, you can fit the start to
the end in 32 bits, makes sense to just
pick a fixed starting point and work up
from there the same way that Unix time
does. The trade-off is simple. Each
pointer goes from eight bytes to four
bytes. Where structures with many
pointers like objects, arrays, closures,
maps, and sets, this can reduce memory
consumption by around 50%. Like, like
think about that. For every single key
that you have in an object with a value
that is something like a string or a
subobject, a pointer is instantiated for
all of those. And if you can cut the
size of those down by 50%, that's going
to be a lot of savings. And then we have
the CPU side. Each heap access now needs
one extra addition for reads or a
subtraction for writes. To put it into
perspective, this extra operations akin
to a level one cache hit in terms of
computational effort. These are
incredibly fast operations and although
millions of them are occurring every
second, their impact ends up being
minimal, akin to a gentle ripple and a
vast ocean of processing tasks. And also
to be clear, this additional plus or
minus is not happening in the JavaScript
world. This is happening in the C++ code
that powers all of this. And then we
have the heap limit. 32-bit offsets can
only reach 4 gigs of memory per V8
isolate, a separate instance of the
JavaScript engine with its own memory
and execution state. For most node
services, which usually use less than a
gig, this isn't a problem. Looking at
you, cursor. Looking at you. But for
everybody else, yeah, that's totally
fine. If I see a node service using more
than a gig of memory, I just assume it's
memory leaking and something is broken.
And usually it is. That is a good call.
I didn't even know this. Apparently,
Chrome has had this on since 2020, which
would make sense for Chrome for sure
because any tab using more than a gig of
RAM is terrifying. more than four gigs
is just throw the computer off a cliff
and start again from scratch. Like if
you have a single tab using four gigs of
RAM, we've already lost the plot long
ago. So Crow adding this on makes a ton
of sense. Previously using this feature
required setting a flag at compile time,
which often felt like an expert only
option for many devs. Yep, totally
agree. As I said before, this is a thing
you had to build in, so you had to
compile with it. Let's just do a poll
and be honest with your answer, guys.
How do you get node? Comes with my DRO.
install it with brew, etc. Some type of
package manager, download from node
sites or compile from scratch. I have a
feeling I know how this one's going to
go. NVM I would consider a package
manager. I probably should have put that
in there. I'm personally on FNM. The
point here I'm trying to make is that
nobody is compiling Node from scratch. I
happen to know that compiling Node from
scratch takes a long time. No one would
want to do that. Oh, we got our one
person who clicked the button. You get
the point, though. This is why they
introduced node caged. The introduction
of node cage has transformed this
enabling pointer compression with a
simple oneline image swap. Again,
assuming that you're not doing your own
custom docker image. You can extend the
one they provide, but like that's that's
a huge shift. This substantial
simplification opens the door for a much
broader audience to experiment with the
feature more immediately. Here's what
changed. Isolate groups. Poor
compression has been part of V8 for
years. Node didn't use it before, not
because of the CPU overhead, but because
of the memory cage limitations. This
will be fun seeing more about how the
memory works within node. B8's pointer
compression made every isolate in a
process share a single pointer cage
which was a 4 gig block of memory for
all compressed pointers. This meant that
the main thread and all worker threads
had to fit in the same 4 gigs. In
Chrome, where each type has its own
process, that was fine. But for Node,
where workers share a process, it was a
bigger deal. Back in November of 2024,
James Snell, who I've seen contributing
everything from Cloudflare to Node to
many other things, he was one of the
ones that came in to help with the chaos
I caused with the benchmarks. He
initiated this endeavor to address the
challenge. I might be misremembering. I
thought he was also the creator of DC,
which was a better fetch implementation
for Node that became the official fetch
implementation for Node. Might not have
been him. I'm struggling to find any
real information on that. Regardless,
James has been involved in a ton of
really important things in the
JavaScript and Node world. There's a
reason he's at Cloudflare and there's a
reason he's the one who proposed this.
He knows what he's doing. Cloudflare
also sponsored Agalia engines Andy and
Dmitri to introduce new FIA features for
this isolate groups which give each
pointer its own compression cage. So
instead of everybody's workers being
stuck in the same 4 gig cage all sharing
that each one can have its own. And this
was for V8. To be clear, there's a
change in V8 that they wanted because
they could do this on Cloudflare to make
their isolates better and also could be
used on Node as well. And the C++ change
for V8 is simple. Now you can use the
isolate new group field like you can
pass a group to this name space and it
works fine where previously you wouldn't
do that and that will give each thread
its own 4 gig keep. The only limit is
the systems available memory. This
change despite being started in November
of 2024 took up until October of 2025.
62 lines across eight files. It took a
year for 62 lines to merge. I want to
just think about this for a second. This
is kind of crazy and I don't think
people appreciate just how hard it is to
ship stuff like this. A proposal that
Cloudflare needed took a year to go from
proposal to shipped and all it was was
62 lines changed that enables the
reduction of memory used by Node and
other V8 apps by over 50% in many cases.
That is insane that it took that long,
but also that they had the wherewithal
to push through and make it happen. This
is the type of open source work that
nobody sees normally that is super
important and that I'm really pumped to
like have happen but also see publicly
here. Shout out to James and Cloudflare
for making all of this happen as well as
the people from Agalia who were
sponsored on it too. Apparently the
pointer compression itself had been
broken since Node2 and they fixed that
as part of all of this. Matteo tested
the changes with a real world Nex.js SSR
app and confirmed the 50% reduction in
heap usage before they approved. So
let's see more about these experiments.
I'm excited. They made a mock Next
Nex.js JS e-commerce app that had it was
a trading card app with 10,000 cards,
100,000 listings, all the fun things
like serverside rendering, search, and a
simulated database delay all on a
Kubernetes cluster. They just had four
setups all using the same hardware and
app code. Standard node, node caged, and
then their platform, which is Watt. It's
like a similar thing to Cloudflare
workers. As far as I understand, it's
their open source node application
server. These four tests, let's see what
the usage looked like. They had a bunch
of mock traffic. 20% was homepage, which
was SSR. 25% was search. 20% was card
details. 15% game category pages, yada
yada. Let's see what the results look
like. For plain node, average latency
went from 39.7 milliseconds to 40.7
milliseconds, which is a bump. That's
2.5%. The P90 got meaningfully worse
from 78 to 82%. That's a 5% bump. So 5%
slower for the 10% slowest stuff, but
much crazier is the 7.8% 8% faster for
P99. So the top 1% slowest got way
faster. The top 10% slowest got slightly
slower. Everything else was pretty
close. Fascinating. A smaller heap means
the garbage collector has less work to
do. So there's fewer and shorter garbage
collection pauses. That's a really good
point. If you're not familiar, since
JavaScript doesn't have you manually
creating and freeing memory, the V8
engine has to handle that for you. When
it detects that values are no longer
being used or tracked, it will find them
and go clean them up eventually. But it
has to choose to go do that and it's not
going to block your stuff for the most
part. But when it is time to clean up
that stuff, that's called garbage
collection. And the garbage collection
process will block things when it's
happening. When GC is going on, other
things can't be. And it's not going to
take a super long time, but it will take
actual time. And that's what the P99 is
hitting. 99% of requests don't get
blocked by garbage collection, but the
1% that do now can have the collection
happen much faster, which is a huge win.
So, how' this work in their runtime? It
actually looks like it was worse for
average P90 and P99. The P99 went up a
ton, but the max, which is beyond P90,
it's like literally the worst case on
each, was down 20%. Fascinating. I'm
guessing they're just having garbage
collection happen less, so they're not
getting the same benefit initially. I
wish they would acknowledge this plus
18.1. I'm so curious about that. If you
compare standard node with watt, which
is their runtime, plus the pointer
compression stuff, the gap is pretty
meaningful. The P99 is 42% faster on
their thing. Seems cool. I should
definitely look into Wattmore.
Apparently, they had published
benchmarks before that were not looking
good. It showed a 56% overhead when they
enabled this. And that was a simple
hello world nexjs starter app. A simple
hello world SSR page mostly does V8
internal work. Compiling templates,
diffing the virtual DOM, and joining
strings. There's no IO, no data loading,
and no real app logic. Every operation
goes through pointer decompression. Real
apps are different. Typical request
spends most of his time on things like
IO weight, data marshalling, framework
overhead like routing, middleware
chains, header processing, and then OS
and network stuff like scheduling with
TCP, TLS, all those things. I agree for
the most part. I've tried to push this a
lot with people. If you're running a
script that just curls an HTML page
being generated by React, probably not
the best benchmark. There's a ton of
other things that matter. I still think
that a 56% decrease in performance on a
thing that doesn't do all this work is
really bad. And I want more info on that
case. Hopefully, we get more of that
here. I like this framing. As the ratio
of real work to pure V8 pointer chasing
increases, the overhead of pointer
compression shrinks proportionally. Our
e-commerce app includes simulated
database delays of 1 to 5 milliseconds,
JSON parsing of data sets with 10,000
plus records, search filtering,
pageionation, and full SSR rendering
with React. In that context, the pointer
decompression overheads round to noise.
Yes. Takeaway being that you should
always use realistic workloads for
benchmarking. Yeah, I tried this myself
when I was getting in all of the fights
about running a [__] trig function in
a loop. I I am proud. I feel like I had
some very small but meaningful impact on
this with the benchmarks I did in the
past, getting Cloudflare to like kick up
their focus on performance stuff. I'm
proud of the impact I may or may not
have had here. And I'm just pumped to
see it all shipping honestly. And to be
clear, the impact I had was not I did
something great. It's that I made
something stupid and that turned into
other people making something great,
which is really cool. There's a very fun
deep dive here about how the garbage
collection stuff works, which I'm
excited to read through. There are
several types of garbage collection
within V8, and these are the two that
matter primarily. There's the minor GC,
which is scavenge. It will copy a live
object from the young generation. Time
is proportional to the number of live
objects and their size. So, this is, as
I understand it, when a new object is
generated, it needs to be put somewhere.
So, a tiny bit of garbage collection
will be done just to figure out what
space is available so I can drop it in
wherever that fits. And then we have the
major GC, the mark sweep compact. This
is the thing that actually goes through
everything in memory, identifies all of
the reachable objects, sweeps the dead
ones, and then optionally compacts. The
time for this depends on the total heap
size and level of fragmentation. To
quickly simplify what this is saying,
you have a bunch of stuff in memory.
Things point from one thing to another.
If there's nothing pointing to an object
anymore, it doesn't need to be held in
memory anymore and it can be disposed
of. There's a lot of edges where V8
isn't necessarily able to perfectly know
if the thing is still relevant or not. I
did a video about weird V8 quirks
forever ago that I dove in on all this
with. The way this works is going
through finding anything that doesn't
have things pointing at it and then
cleaning that up, but has to go through
everything in memory to do this. So, it
takes actual time. We're talking
milliseconds, but a number of
milliseconds. It means something. It's
also worth noting that garbage
collection is a much bigger issue in
languages that are, I'll be real,
faster. Like managing your own memory in
JavaScript wouldn't make much sense
because the runtime is still going to be
the major bottleneck. Whereas in
something like Go, the garbage
collection is the only thing that is
slow. So, it will often end up becoming
a blocker in certain scenarios. That's
why companies like Discord are moving
some of their backend stuff off of Go to
Rust. Even though Go is just as fast as
Rust for most things, the fact that the
garbage collection can make some
requests slower caused unreliable
traffic patterns. Like if it does
garbage collection when you're making a
request, your traffic takes longer than
it does for other people. That's why
they moved to Rust because they wanted
to reduce the amount of times that
garbage collection would interfere with
real traffic. Dancing around garbage
collection is an art and I'm so thankful
that us in the JavaScript world don't
have to do it ourselves. that the much
smarter people building Node and V8 for
us have solved so many of these things.
But yeah, the the major GC is the thing
that matters here for the numbers. And
if the size of the pointers is half of
the size, you end up having way less
data to deal with when you go do the
garbage collection. Because of the
pointer compression, every object is
smaller. This is domino effects. Things
like the objects fit in fewer cache
lines because the compressed object that
fits in a single 64- cache instead of
two, that makes garbage collection much
easier. If a piece of data takes up
twice as many slots that you have to
check, you have to check twice as much
[__] when you do the garbage collection.
More importantly though, the young
generation, which is their primary, like
these are things that were recently
instantiated that we probably want to
keep in like immediate memory that will
fill more slowly because smaller objects
are taking up less space. The major GC
has less to scan. A 1 gig heap with
compressed pointers contains the same
logical data as a 2 gig heap without. So
the scan actually takes less time of
course and the compaction is moving
things around less because when you do
the compaction you're taking the things
that are gone and flattening to the
front. I guess we do need Excal after
all. If we have our memory and in our
memory we have stuff like let's say we
have object one, object two. Object two
is actually quite big. Object three. And
then we'll round this out with object
four. And now we have this new object,
object five. And we want to instantiate
this and put this into memory. There's a
problem though. There's no [__]
space. So, this triggers a garbage
collection. Let's say object one points
to three, object three points to four,
and nothing's pointing to two. What ends
up happening with the garbage collection
pass? Two gets deleted, and then these
get moved. You might be questioning why
move the things. Well, I'll show you.
Let's say it was actually like this. We
had object three, object one, object
four, and we have this space between the
two. But this object is too big to fit
in either of those spaces. This is
called fragmentation. So the reason that
we move everything is the same reason we
defrag our drives. It's so all of the
free space is at the end. So it's easier
to add in new [__] without having to
unfurl it and break it out across so
many things. It's also why virtualizing
memory is so valuable because if the OS
can handle the fragmentation part and
you're just dropping pointers directly
to things that aren't real but are in
your space is great. And obviously you
could understand why things being half
the size means less movement has to
happen. Thereby this process ends up
being cheaper and faster. And as Matteo
says here, the end result is that GC
pauses are both shorter and less
frequent. This corresponds to what we
saw in the P99 and max latency numbers.
When a longtail request lines up with a
GC pause, the pause is now shorter. They
drop some fun cost numbers here, too,
which are very interesting. If your
current node on Kubernetes takes 2 gigs
of memory per pod, this compression can
knock you down to one gig. You get the
same app in performance but can run
twice as many pods per node or use half
as many nodes. What would having pod
memory do to your bill? Take a moment to
calculate the potential savings base on
your current setup. For them, this
example was based on a six node M52x
large, which is at 38 cents per hour
roughly. That's about $16,600
a year. If you can go from six nodes to
three because you need half as much RAM,
you're saving $8,300 a year. If you have
a real production fleet with 50 or more
of these nodes, the savings could be
between 80 and $100,000 a year without
changing any code. That's pretty huge.
You know what would actually benefit a
lot from this? OpenClaw. Someone should
make an OpenClaw Docker image based on
this one because that compression is
going to help it a ton. You'll be able
to run OpenClaw on way smaller boxes as
a result of this. Like genuinely, that's
really cool. This also means you can
double your tenant density. Multi-tenant
SAS platforms where each tenant runs in
their own isolated node process often
will hit memory limits as the binding
constraint for density. Yeah, absolutely
agree. If you have five customers and
all of them are running on the same box
and each one needs 2 gigs of memory,
even if they're not doing processing all
the time, like you're not bottlenecked
on CPU, you're bottlenecked on RAM. If
you can cut the amount of RAM each of
those instances needs by half, you can
put twice as many things on that box.
That's a big deal for a lot of memory
constrained work which is a lot of these
like multi-runner cases. This also will
help unlock edge deployments. I didn't
even thought of that. That's a big deal.
If you don't need as much RAM, you are
much less blocked when you try to deploy
things at edge. Lambda at edge, cloudy
workers and dino deploy have strict
memory limits between 128 megs to 512
megs. The reason Cloudflare sponsored
this work is because the worker runtime
needed pointer compression to support
more isolates. Yeah, they can now put
twice as many things in when they're not
using CPU. That's crazy. In a world
where 128 gigs of server RAM is $2,500,
this means a lot. Yeah, I didn't even I
should have thought about that before.
The fact that RAM is so expensive makes
this a really really good welltimed
change. This is another one I hadn't
thought of. For websocket apps, you
often end up blocked on memory because
if you're maintaining all of these
connections and don't have anything to
send yet, you're not using much CPU, but
you are using a shitload of RAM because
each of those connections is
conservatively taking 10 kilobytes per
connection on the heap. That puts you at
500 megabytes of RAM with 50,000
connections on one box. Now you're down
to 250 meg. That's huge. So you can have
a 100,000 connections on the server that
could previously only do 50,000. Huge.
Like if some random service was
promising me this, I wouldn't believe
them. But this is Matteo Kina, who is my
go-to reference point for things going
on in Node. One of the best C++
engineers I've ever met. Matteo is
really good. He is writing this as a
maintainer of Node, not as a person
trying to sell you something. So I do
believe him fully with this. They do
call out the fact that if you do
actually need more than 4 gigs of RAM
per isolate, then this doesn't work.
This is not going to help. This is
probably going to cause problems. It's
not an option. But only the VHJS heap is
what's living inside the cage. Native
add-on allocations and array buffer do
not count against that limit. That's
good to know. Like I don't think any of
the apps using that much RAM aren't
offloading things like that. So almost
certainly good. But there's one more
compatibility constraint. Native add-ons
built with the legacy NAN, the native
abstractions for Node, won't work with
pointer compression enabled. NAN exposes
V8 internals directly, and pointer
compression changes the internal
representation of those objects. When
you recompile, the AI is different.
Add-ons built on the Node API, which was
formerly an API, are unaffected because
node checks away those pointer layers.
Apparently, the most popular packages
have all long since migrated. Sharp,
brypt, canvas, SQLite 3, level down,
buffer, util, UTF8, validate, all are
good. Apparently, NodeGit is one of the
few things that is still using nan. If
you run npm lsn, if nothing shows up,
you're good. This will actually be fun.
Let's try that. A T3 chat codebase.
Woo! T3 chat is clear. We can turn this
on. That's actually really exciting. Our
memory usage is not great. That'll be a
huge win. So, if you can run this
command and nothing happens and you're
deploying your node apps via Docker, I'm
with him. You absolutely should try
this. There isn't much to lose. I'm
going to try turning this on for a few
things that I'm working on right now.
I'm actually really curious how this
goes. Also, how it performs compared to
bun. This was a phenomenal article.
Thank you, Matteo, for writing this.
This is a super cool deep dive. I hope
that y'all learned something as I read
this. And if you haven't, go give Matteo
a follow. He's putting so much work in
for all of this and is not compensated
fairly for it. I can promise you guys
that much. He's one of those quiet
people behind the scenes keeping the
internet functioning as we know it. Give
him a follow. Support him for the work
he does. I appreciate him immensely and
I hope you guys do too. Are you guys as
excited as I am about using less RAM or
do you just want to save money now that
it's all so expensive? Let me know how
you feel in the comments.